---
author: andi
date: 2015-04-06
id: onsen-ui-1.3-is-out-with-awesome-features-and-windows-universal-partial-support
title: "Onsen UI 1.3 is out, with new awesome features and Windows Universal partial support!"
---

Dear followers, we are happy to announce that Onsen UI 1.3 has just been released! In this new version, you can find not only the classics bug fixes and improvements, but also new awesome features that will improve the user experience. One of the main features introduced with this version of Onsen UI is a Window Universal (Windows Phone 8.1, Windows 8.1 and IE 11) partial support! In this article we will introduce some of the main features we have integrated in the framework, but we also invite you to also take a look at the full version of the [Changelog](https://github.com/OnsenUI/OnsenUI/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) to understand better which are the changes and how to update your apps.

<!-- more -->

You can download Onsen UI from our [website](http://onsen.io/), fork our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/OnsenUI/OnsenUI) or, if you prefer using Bower, by execute the following command:

```bash
bower install onsenui
```

First of all, let's talk about the feature that can, probably, be considered the most appealing of this new version of Onsen UI: the partial support for Windows Universal platform. The others main features will be introduced later.

### Window Universal (Windows Phone 8.1, Windows 8.1 and IE 11) partial support

As you know, Onsen UI has been created mainly to improve the development of apps based on [Apache Cordova](https://cordova.apache.org/). Since Apace Cordova officially supports Windows platform and, since a large portion of developers, that use Onsen UI to implement the user interface of their apps, have expressed they interest of making their apps available also for Windows Universal platform, we have decided that was time, for us, to support also this emerging platform. We strongly support the concept of Hybrid App, that's why we want to give, to everybody, the possibility to use our product on all the main platforms available on the market, despite their market share. For us, the Windows support is just a natural step in this direction.

Actually, we are able only to provide a partial support for Windows Universal platform. There is still a couple of elements that are not working properly and, some animations, are still not smooth as in Android and iOS, but we are confident that there will be improvements in the future. We will release soon a document containing all the issues related to Windows Universal app development with Onsen UI.
Since the release of Windows 10 is planned for this summer, the have planned to offer full support only when it will be available on the market.



### Event Handler attributes

Since this release, many Onsen UI elements have been extended with Event Handler attributes, such `ons-preopen`, `ons-close`, `ons-destroy` etc. You can find a list of all the elements, in which this feature is implemented, inside the [Changelog](https://github.com/OnsenUI/OnsenUI/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

Some of these events were already supported by Onsen UI but, the way to implement them, was not intuitive and user friendly. That's why we decided to map them with attributes, making their implementation easier and faster.

Lets' now take a look a some of them with this CodePen example:

<br>
<p data-height="268" data-theme-id="0" data-slug-hash="XJQozg" data-default-tab="result" data-user="andipavllo" class='codepen'>See the Pen <a href='http://codepen.io/andipavllo/pen/XJQozg/'>Sliding Menu</a> by Andi Pavllo (<a href='http://codepen.io/andipavllo'>@andipavllo</a>) on <a href='http://codepen.io'>CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="//assets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>
<br>

As you can see, we have just added the Event Handler attributes at the `ons-sliding-menu` element and defined the relative AngularJS $scope methods.

### Navigator replacePage() method added

A new functionality has been added to the Navigator element. Using the method `repacePage()`, is possible to replace the current page with another page, at the same level of the stack. The method takes, as input, `pageUrl`, which can be either an HTML document or an `ons-template`, and some optional attributes like:

* *animation:* animation name. Available animations are `slide`, `simpleslide`, `lift`, `fade` and `none`.
* *onTransitionEnd:* function that is called when the transition has ended.

### Animation for Popover

`ons-popover` element has been extended with an animation feature, that can be defined by the attribute `animation`. This attribute will affect both the showing and hiding action of the popover, and can have value `fade` or `none`.


### And now?

We are very happy about the new features that we have implemented in this new version of Onsen UI, but we will not stop here! Soon we will introduce the new tools we have implemented to make your Windows Universal apps development more profitable: Intellisense support, Visual Studio template and TypeScript support. Immediately after, we will publish, in our blog, some guides about how to use these tools and how to create sample apps for Windows Universal platform.

We are working hard to improve Onsen UI, that's why we would like to ask you, one more time: "If you enjoy using Onsen UI please spread the word so we can grow the community!"

As alway, we would like you to tell us, in case you have a feature that you would like to see in an upcoming version of Onsen UI, by opening an issue on our [GitHub issues page](https://github.com/OnsenUI/OnsenUI/issues). You're also welcome to open a [pull request](https://github.com/OnsenUI/OnsenUI/pulls) to fix bugs, correct mistakes or even implement a new feature. We will happily accept contributions if we deem them good enough. 

We hope you will appreciate the work that we have done in this release, continue to follow us and be part of our community!
